---
title: "USACO 2014 December Gold"
categories:
  - Programming
tags:
  - Algorithms
  - Java
  - USACO
---

## USACO 2014 December Gold

# Problem 3: CowJog

Farmer John's N cows (1 <= N <= 100,000) are out exercising their
hooves again, jogging along an infinite track.  Each cow starts at a
distinct position on the track, and some cows run at different speeds.

The track is divided into lanes so that cows may move past each other.
No two cows in the same lane may ever occupy the same position.
Farmer John doesn't want any cow to have to change lanes or adjust
speed, and he wonders how many lanes he will need to accomplish this
if the cows are going to run for T minutes (1 <= T <= 1,000,000,000).

INPUT: (file cowjog.in)

The first line of input contains N and T.

The following N lines each contain the initial position and speed of a
single cow.  Position is a nonnegative integer and speed is a positive
integer; both numbers are at most 1 billion.  All cows start at
distinct positions, and these will be given in increasing order in the
input.

[CowJog](http://www.usaco.org/index.php?page=viewproblem2&cpid=496)


{% highlight python linenos %}
import java.io.*;
import java.util.ArrayList;
import java.util.List;
import java.util.StringTokenizer;


public class CowJogGoldDec {

    public static void main(String args[]) throws IOException {

        BufferedReader br = new BufferedReader(new FileReader("cowjog.in"));
        PrintWriter pw = new PrintWriter(new BufferedWriter(new FileWriter("cowjog.out")));
        StringTokenizer st = new StringTokenizer(br.readLine());

        int n = Integer.parseInt(st.nextToken());
        int t = Integer.parseInt(st.nextToken());

        CowJogGoldDec cowJogGoldDec = new CowJogGoldDec();

        List<Long> cows = new ArrayList<Long>();
        for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
            st = new StringTokenizer(br.readLine());

            Long start = Long.parseLong(st.nextToken());
            Long speed = Long.parseLong(st.nextToken());

            cows.add(start + (t*speed));
        }

        // positions found

        List<Long> lanesLast = new ArrayList<Long>();
        lanesLast.add(cows.get(0));

        for (int i = 1; i < cows.size(); i++) {
            // check lanes

            long diff = Long.MAX_VALUE;
            int value = Integer.MAX_VALUE;
            for (int j = 0; j < lanesLast.size(); j++) {
                if (cows.get(i) > lanesLast.get(j)) {

                    if (cows.get(i) - lanesLast.get(j) < diff) {
                        diff = cows.get(i) - lanesLast.get(j);
                        value = j;
                    }
                }
            }

            if (diff == Long.MAX_VALUE) {
                // not found, not added
                lanesLast.add(cows.get(i));
            }
            else {
                // adding to lane
                lanesLast.set(value, cows.get(i));
            }
        }

        pw.println(lanesLast.size());
        pw.close();

    }


}

{% endhighlight %}
